hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e to
language if you're going to take your
IELTS test then you better prepare what
we're going to do in this live class yes
we're going to look at IELTS academic
writing task 1 we're going to look at
multiple pie charts so on Tuesday you
turn over your paper and this is what
you see you see not one not two but
three pie charts how likely is it that
you'll see three pie charts well it's
not unlikely okay so you'll never see
one because you need to compare data
well I shouldn't say that maybe you will
more often than not you'll see two but
in the rare chance that you may see
three it's worth preparing for this and
it does happen I've had people tell me
that they've seen three tables three
line graphs so certainly there will be
three pie charts as a possibility I want
to teach you how to structure up your
writing so you can tackle this one
accurately and correctly now just for
your interest
I think admittedly in the IELTS that
would be less categories okay you
probably have four categories or five
categories this one I've made
particularly hard because I also want to
teach you something about selecting the
right data cool so what's the structure
we're going to use well we're looking at
three graphs not one not two but three
so we're going to use this structure
here we're going to write a summary a
very short summary of a single sentence
or maybe two sentences then we're gonna
have an our first major paragraph we're
going to talk about the USA one of those
pie charts we're going to describe in a
single sentence then we're going to
compare in three or four sentences and
we'll do the same in paragraph two and
paragraph three for Canada and the UK
all right I'm going to walk you through
this so this is what your paper will
look like on test day when you've
finished after 20 minutes you're going
to have the summary at the top here okay
here's your summary this is just one
sentence we're going to first focus on
the first pie chart the USA we're gonna
have one Center
here which is a general overview of key
features then we're going to write maybe
two maybe two to two to four sentences
comparing the data will do the same here
and we'll do the same here
with the cannon with the candidate with
Canada and the UK cool all right
let's write the summary so how do we do
that
well you can see in this box here it
says the pie charts show the percentage
of car ownership by make in three
countries in 2015 what you need to do to
write your summary sentence is simply
rewrite this description in your own
words to say the exact same thing now to
say the exact same thing sometimes you
cannot use a synonym because synonyms
very often say something slightly
different
so this first job this first task of
writing the summary sentence is about
word choice choosing the most precise
word try to use synonyms if you can or
rearrange this the the sentence that I
just showed you but think about whether
it's saying the exact same thing because
if it says something slightly different
your score will decrease because the
examiner will think you have
misunderstood this graph let me read
your mind the pie charts illustrate in
percentage terms the ownership of
various car types in the USA Canada and
the UK in 2015 now let's read this one
again the pie charts show the percentage
of car ownership by make in three
countries in 2015 I'm going to give you
a couple of minutes to write your
fantastic summary sentence starting now
you
all right I'm beginning to think that's
too much time just let me have a check
of the answers here right let me read a
few to you and I'll point out some good
things and some bad things hopefully no
bad things the given pie charts
represent the types of cars owned by
people in Canada UK and USA in
percentages in the Year 2015 there are
some tiny little errors in that but
otherwise you have said the exact same
thing vide well done that's really good
okay I've got another one here on
YouTube live so this is live this is not
a recording let me read you this one the
pie charts depict I think that's correct
that's a good verb depict the
information about the percentage of car
manufacturers rep barrel how many
factors no no no no no car ownership
it's about car ownership not
manufacturers in three different regions
in 2015 so you were close that that
little error the difference between
ownership and manufacturing the IELTS
examiner it's the first sentence of your
description he or she has just read that
and gone uh-oh we've we've got a we've
got a well maybe you could pick it up
following on but you just shouldn't make
those mistakes cool hopefully that's
enough time it isn't you can pause go
back watch again here on YouTube click
that subscribe button please so you can
get alerts whenever I go live or one of
the other teachers goes live it's very
important you can also leave a comment
and be lovely if you want right we've
done the easiest part now we're going to
move on to writing our paragraphs where
we describe key features and compare
data I'm gonna start with this one here
let's just think about this one for a
bit
okay so we're looking at car ownership
in the USA in 2015 so what have we got
here what have we got what have we got
okay obviously the biggest piece of the
pie is in fact at the top of the list so
this is number one so Volkswagen at
point-7 we've got for dat 13.2 we've got
General Motors at 11%
we've got Renault Nissan at when you're
writing this don't worry about the other
words just forget corporation and just
call them Toyota for example okay fine
now I look at this I don't know about
you but I look at this and I think okay
this one this one this one and this one
account for more than 50%
that's quite a feature of this graph
okay I don't want to go into detail I
just want to describe in my first
sentence the most significant feature of
this pie chart which for me is that this
accounts for I won't be precise but it's
certainly more than 50% I could I could
add it up you can do a little bit of
mathematics if you want but you don't
need to now then I'm going to look at
some comparisons let me read you mine
let me read your mind car ownership in
the USA was dominated by two major car
makes okay I did a bit differently sorry
I showed you the 50% but in fact when I
was writing this before I did something
slightly different which doesn't matter
that's fine let me reach him this one
car ownership in the USA was dominated
by two major car makes that accounted
for nearly 40% of car ownership namely
Volkswagen and Ford
in addition General Motors Renault
Nissan BMW Mini and PSA made up another
36% in contrast car ownership also
consisted of smaller percentage shares
including Hyundai at 6.4%
if CA at 3.3 percent and Honda at 2.2
percent now one thing that you will
notice that I have not done is include
all of those car makes because that's
impossible okay I talked about the two
major ones accounting for 40% I then
talked about the next three accounting
for 36% and then I just picked three of
the smaller ones and said Honda Hyundai
and whatever if
is made up this this in this percentage
okay in other words you don't have
enough words to describe all of those
pieces of the pie describe the main ones
pick a few small ones and that's that
it's your turn now I'm going to give you
five minutes to write this paragraph
describe the key features of this graph
in one sentence you can do it like me
forty percent or you can talk about more
than fifty percent then in three to four
sentences describe and compare car
ownership away you go
you
oh gee Doki that's five minutes per
paragraph sounds about right that will
give us 15 minutes for the three
paragraphs couple of minutes for the
first one a couple of minutes to edit
our work and that's 20 minutes all right
in USA car ownership that highly
percentage about 40 percent depend on
the three main companies Volkswagen Ford
Motors and General Motors and about 2.3
percent rely on another three companies
which are is Renault innocent BMW and
PSA other than those companies have
smaller percentage in the USA not bad
sentence structure blah blah blah blah
blah with your final sentence if you do
choose some of those smaller pieces of
the pie do mention their percentages
just say Honda Hyundai and Toyota
accounted for 2.3 3.2 and 2.1
respectively or some sort of structure
like that it's good let me read one more
if we've got any on youtube live here we
go Alina Jim more than 50 percent of the
cars made in the USA by 2015 were owned
by Volkswagen Ford Motors General Motors
and Renault innocent companies where
Volkswagen was the highest with 20.7%
good looking good the other next major
producers are or word your first
sentence was past tense were now you
flick to R this is 2015 remember it's in
the past so all of our verbs need to be
was were produced etc the other next
major producers were BMW PSA and Hyun
Day with more than 20% which together
less than Volkswagen alone good not bad
good good good good good
cool let's keep moving because we're
going to write the next paragraph before
you do that use on you people on YouTube
please click like leave a comment
subscribe and share this with your
friends so they don't suffer on test day
Canada here we go so we're going to
describe the key feet
in one sentence then we're going to
describe and compare the ownership by
car make for example Volkswagen or BMW
in three to four sentences mine says
this Canada's car ownership showed
similarities to the USA s with Ford and
General Motors accounting for a
significant market share at well over
20% while Toyota accounted for fourteen
point eight percent ten other makes made
up for just made up no four that's my
mistake just over fifty percent of the
rest of car ownership with FCA chrysler
honda and Nissen making up significant
proportions at 12.5% nine point point
five percent and 8.2 percent
respectively
ok that's mine here's yours you have
five minutes please describe Canada's
car ownership
you
all right I may have been reading the
newspaper while you did that let's have
a look look now the car Ernest where are
we we're not in USA anymore we're up to
Canada so here we go look nur again the
Canada sorry not the Canada just
Canada's okay the USA yes because that's
just the name of it's just called the
the United States of America but not the
America anyway Canada's car ownership
showed substantial growth no it didn't
show any growth at all because it's just
showing 2015 so we don't know if it's
grown or if it's decreased so there
should be no words like growth in this
okay there should be
phrases like accounted for or Volkswagen
accounted for 16 percent of Canada's car
ownership okay so there's no growth here
the two major companies dumb the two
major companies that dominate are the
small companies I'll read another one
I'll read another one that one's
off-track hopefully in the third
paragraph you can clean that up
Canada's car ownership shows a similar
pattern like the USA fine major part of
car ownership is taken by brands like
General Motors Ford and Toyota which
contributes around 45% of the total car
ownership on the other hand brand
contributing the lowest percentages are
Mazda and Dalma and BMW respectively
that's fine but you need to put the
percentages in for those last three ones
you could have said at two point two or
three point three and four point four
percent respectively remember to put in
this paragraph you need to include the
percentages okay so let's just go back
let's go back and have a look at these
these graphs for a second okay
now
it's just to 20015 so we're comparing
three countries in 2015 so there in fact
is no trend there's no growth
there's no decrease we just don't know
it's just a snapshot in time so then
what are we describing then
well we're describing proportions okay
we're describing how much in terms of
percentages I can't think of the
sentence car ownership so the sentences
that we want to write will be something
like this okay we want to start with
this is the subject I think General
Motors so let's just write GM accounted
for this is a nice phrase that you might
want to remember accounted for now its
accountant turd past tense because it's
2015 17.9%
okay it's a very simple sentence but
that's the kind of sentence that you
need to write General Motors accounted
for seventeen point nine percent while
Ford what's another synonym here made-up
just or less at fifteen point three
percent so you want to sort of do a bit
of a comparison between these two or you
might want to just describe this chunk
and then compare it to these ones here
but again there's no trends here we're
just describing pieces of the pie so
let's try this again
with the final paragraph which is the UK
we want to describe the key features in
a single sentence that's our sort of
topic sentence what you first notice
about the pie and also try and connect
it back to the USA in Canada I'll show
you in a second then we want to describe
and compare ownership by car type or car
make in three or four sentences so
here's mine car ownership in the UK was
similar to both you SAS in Canada's with
the most significant difference being
that Hyundai Kia accounted for 11.2%
significantly higher than the other
two countries Mazda was also more
popular in the UK at three point nine
percent compared to 1.8 percent in
Canada and no representation in the USA
so how many percentage signs have I got
in here well I've got the eleven point
two and then I talked about three point
nine one point eight so there's not many
in here but if we look at this one here
I've got twenty percent
fourteen point eight percent I've got
fifty percent
I've got twelve point five nine point
five and eight point two okay so here
three here six fine what about this one
I've got 40 percent I've got six point
four thirty-six three point three and
two point two so I've got five so you
want to aim for around well you know
between three and six I guess but the
important thing is that you include
percentages in your paragraph here
because this is where we could sort of
comparing things now you'll notice that
I've talked about Mazda and if we go
back to the graph master is not a
significant part whereas the graph let's
just talk about it here that's fine so I
said that the UK was similar to the USA
for Ford and General Motors and then I
mentioned something about Chrysler I
believe then what I did is I looked at
the other pie charts and I looked at
Mazda and I saw okay the UK he's got
more people who own Mazdas than the
other country so I said that it's at
three point nine percent well Canada's
at whatever two point one percent and
the USA actually just didn't have it at
all so there's something to learn here
which is selecting which things you're
going to compare this you have to make
these decisions on test day and it's
hard because you're under stress and
pressure it's a lot riding on what
you're doing but you need to be clear
and think okay so I've connected that
I've talked about the main parts and
then you look closely and you think okay
Mazda's interesting why because in the
UK there were more there was there was
higher ownership of mazda compared to
canada and in fact in the you
there was it wasn't mentioned at all so
you can write a nice sentence like that
and today ownership of masters was
highest in the UK at 3.9 percent
compared to the Canada at 2.9 percent
whereas in the USA
there was no representation so I'm
making those comparisons why Mazda well
I thought it was something interesting
but again it's about selecting what you
think is interesting right so let me get
rid of this whoops
okay whoops here we go you have five
minutes to do the UK to describe the
percentage of ownership of different
cars in five minutes starting now
you
cool alright I'm just looking at YouTube
live there's some someone writing rude
stuff on there who I've just kicked out
why not I can do that okay great let me
read you this one power ownership in the
UK was quite different from the USA in
Canada good nice nice description of the
key features a nice comparison and
linking back to the other countries with
major contributions from Ford Motor
Company Chrysler and General Motors with
15.7 15 point whatever it is 13 point 5
respectively good
that's a nice opening sentence very well
done you've not only described those key
features but you've also made a link
comparing back to the other countries
which is fantastic okay okay okay okay
let me just read you this one sentence
it's very good Hyundai accounted for
eleven point two percent
well it's started off well let me just
say I can tell you that all right let me
just read you a couple from here let's
have another girl let's have another
look here okay okay let me read you
Santosh's because he's pasted in a
million times in the UK ownership of
cars showed similar proportions to that
of the other two countries accounting
for the two countries . new sentence
ford accounted for fifteen point seven
five percent followed by FCA with
fifteen point six five percent whereas
BMW Daimler Subaru and counter for less
than three percent of ownership in
addition Hyundai Toyota and Honda shared
a similar percentage of car ownership
accounting for eleven point two ten
point eight and nine point three percent
respectively good well done well done
good
just hoping I haven't scared looking off
there here we go
the UK's car ownership showed similar
trends when compared to the USA and
Canada similar not similar trends again
it's not there's no time here there's no
it's not 2014 15 16 so there's no
trajectory of trends but you could have
said proportions showed similar
proportions or similar numbers of
ownership when compared to the USA in
Canada good Ford Motors accounted for
15.75 percent of car ownership and this
was closely followed by Chrysler at
fifteen point six five percent Subaru
accounted for two point three percent of
cars only and is similar to Canada that
had three point three percent of cars in
much better look note well done you've
got it now good all right let's keep
moving and let's just recap what we have
learnt in this fabulous lesson if you're
on YouTube you haven't clicked like
please do that so what should you do on
test day if you see three pie charts
well you should write four well not four
paragraphs you're gonna write a summary
sentence here where you just rewrite
that task description we did that your
first paragraph will be here you're
going to describe in a sentence the key
features for the USA then you're going
to compare it to one sentence in three
to four sentences of a comparison okay
cool you're going to do the same for
Canada you're gonna do the same for the
UK you're going to make some sort of
connections back because sorry between
the countries you know how we said
Canada was similar to the US and the UK
was similar to both the USA and Canada
except for Toyota which is blah blah
blah blah so we've made some connections
back we've done everything that the ions
has asked us to do that's what we ought
to do this is what it will look like on
the paper in front of you you're going
to see the four parts the three main
paragraphs the single summary sentence
at the top this is 189 words I
absolutely urgent your words
test day or at least have a very good
idea of what they look like on that
piece of paper because if you write
under the word count which 23% of people
do you're going to lose a band score
okay one whole band score maybe even
more it's ridiculous I know count your
words especially for the essay as well
you need to write more than 250 if you
don't you won't be getting eight I'll
tell you that much
cool guys if you're on YouTube you want
to join in these live classes go to e to
language comm you'll see a button where
you can join the IELTS live classes you
can register for them if your free user
or paid you know know if you're free
user you feel like you wanna have some
one-on-one tutorials with expert
teachers get some writing feedback get
full access to our online course then
you can do that by upgrading to a paid
subscription if you need any help at all
just sign up for free and get started
that way I'm gonna leave it there I'm
gonna answer some questions for the paid
members in the webinar so thanks for
coming right let me need to do some Q&A
here any questions when is the next
master class joy or says joy I'll let
you know I'm not sure I'm not sure joy
y'all can I ask you a question which is
were they effective with the PDF with
the printable PDF near Lisa do we need a
conclusion nor in the essay yes in this
description no you're not concluding
anything there's nothing to conclude
there's no opinions you're just
describing so there's no conclusion need
it Anand J your second test score I'm
still waiting for the review so I'm not
gonna say anything until I get the
review I can tell you that I'm gonna
take it for the third time though my
pursuit of getting nines is it possible
I don't know I think I'll give up on the
third time to be honest because I don't
know
is it possible I don't know
can we write up a sink can we write the
word percent instead of writing the
simple percent you should just write the
simple percent because it's more
efficient I believe any more questions
all right let me go to YouTube
okay so somebody's asking about the
difference in scoring between task 1 and
task 2 so task 2 is worth sixty six
percent so it's worth two thirds task
one is worth one-third hence you spend
20 minutes on task one and 40 minutes on
task two on the SA okay MD to fail on
YouTube live asks should we maintain any
paragraph structure in this yes let me
show you again this is what it should
look like on test day there so you can
see clearly the delineations between my
paragraphs right at all I think that's
all maybe not any more questions
excellent good Joelle I'll keep that in
mind okay
here's another question do we need to
include all of the data or just the most
prominent information yes it's about
selecting obviously there was too many
car types to describe you would have
written 500 words so we have to select
carefully and be intelligent with our
selections a Marine yes I'm receiving
your messages but no I'm not going to
mark your writing which tense will be
appropriate excellent question here we
go let's look at this for verb tense
okay now remember we're talking about
2015 when is this is this the future is
this the past the present it's the past
okay so this is different this has a
different verb tense but look at this
was I was dominated that's a passive
sentence there that
turd in addition general manager made
make made past tense consisted
Canada's car ownership showed so what
I'm using here is past tense in all
three of these paragraphs here now if I
look at the first sentence it's
different it's written in the present
simple the pie charts illustrate why
because the pie charts in the past what
I'm doing is they they illustrate
permanently ever presently so I use
present simple there but apart from that
I use past simple and that's it you may
have to choose different verbs on test
day I'm not sure okay
here's a great question structures for
the tasks are becoming more so how could
we memorize it or you really need to do
is practice on a single graph a double
graph and a multiple graph if you do
that the principles apply to pie charts
bar charts and line graphs and tables as
well the only different one excuse me is
our diagrams processes okay so you do
need to practice you need to practice
it's you can't do this intellectually
you need to put pen to paper okay here's
a good question
should we differ our words and our verbs
for example should we use different
synonyms well account for made-up I
can't think of any other synonyms so I
use them several times I think it's fine
as long as they're precise remember
Mohamad should we mention more about
relative data in this type of question
yes you're definitely comparing so you
can watch this video again see the
comparisons that I've made in my
paragraphs you know question sentences
like while although in contrast these
sorts of sentences are comparative
sentences Ali fer please send your query
to hello at e2 language comm huh here's
a good question from Gopal why doesn't I
ant tell us our mistakes in detail after
the exam and that would be fabulous if
you receive detailed feedback about why
you got five point five or six point
five or seven point five well I can tell
you that that is not going to happen
because that would be a very expensive
procedure for IELTS to do currently they
spend three minutes marking your essay
is it and a very short amount of time
they spend marking your papers so
they're not going to give you feedback
that's not going to
but it's a good idea I agree all right
cool
I'm not sure about that one a leaf up
Rumi like yes we have grammar lessons
you can type in e two words know what's
a court eat ooh learn English
we have grammar lessons up there guys
I'm going to bid you farewell thanks
very much for coming along I appreciate
it do come along to the next live
classes sign up for free 82 language and
if you need help do think about
upgrading to a paid upgrading to a paid
account that would be good I'll see you
soon
you